feat: add streaming http-to-http sample (#102)
eclipse-edc/Samples: transfer/streaming/streaming-01-http-to-http/README.md

# Streaming HTTP to HTTP

This sample will show how you could set up the EDC to stream messages from HTTP to HTTP.
This code is only for sampling purpose and should not be used in production.

## Concept
We will build a data-plane `DataSource` extension that will get the data from a folder in the disk and will push every 

> new piece of data to every consumer that started a `TransferProcess` on an asset related to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to every consumer that has started a `TransferProcess` for a related asset.
```

### Run

> Build the connector runtime, it will be used both for provider and consumer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build the connector runtime, which will be used both for the provider and consumer:
```

```shell
./gradlew :transfer:streaming:streaming-01-http-to-http:streaming-01-runtime:build
```

> Run the provider and the consumer, must be started from different terminal shells:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the provider and the consumer, which must be started from different terminal shells:
```

```shell
# provider
export EDC_FS_CONFIG=transfer/streaming/streaming-01-http-to-http/streaming-01-runtime/provider.properties
java -jar transfer/streaming/streaming-01-http-to-http/streaming-01-runtime/build/libs/connector.jar

#consumer
export EDC_FS_CONFIG=transfer/streaming/streaming-01-http-to-http/streaming-01-runtime/consumer.properties
java -jar transfer/streaming/streaming-01-http-to-http/streaming-01-runtime/build/libs/connector.jar
```

#### Register Data Plane on provider

> Provider connector needs to be aware of the streaming capabilities of the embedded dataplane, it can be registered with 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The provider connector needs to be aware of the streaming capabilities of the embedded dataplane, which can be registered with 
```

this call:
```js
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @transfer/streaming/streaming-01-http-to-http/dataplane.json  -X POST "http://localhost:18181/management/v2/dataplanes"
```

If you look at the `dataplane.json` you'll notice that the supported source is `HttpStreaming` and the supported sink is `HttpData`.

#### Register Asset, Policy Definition and Contract Definition on provider

> First thing needed is to create a "source" folder, where our data plane will get the messages to be sent to the consumers, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A "source" folder must first be created where the data plane will get the messages to be sent to the consumers. 
```

> a temp one will be enough:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, create a temp folder:
```

```shell
mkdir /tmp/source
```

Then put the path in the [asset.json](asset.json) file replacing the `{{sourceFolder}}` placeholder.
```json
  "dataAddress": {
    "type": "HttpStreaming",
    "sourceFolder": "{{sourceFolder}}"
  }
```

Then create the Asset, the Policy Definition and the Contract Definition with these three calls:
```shell
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @transfer/streaming/streaming-01-http-to-http/asset.json  -X POST "http://localhost:18181/management/v3/assets"
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @transfer/streaming/streaming-01-http-to-http/policy-definition.json  -X POST "http://localhost:18181/management/v2/policydefinitions"
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @transfer/streaming/streaming-01-http-to-http/contract-definition.json  -X POST "http://localhost:18181/management/v2/contractdefinitions"
```

#### Negotiate the contract
The typical flow would require to fetch the catalog from the consumer side and look for the contract offer to being able

> to negotiate a contract, however in this sample case we already have the provider asset it (`"stream-asset"`) so we can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to negotiate a contract. However, in this sample case, we already have the provider asset (`"stream-asset"`) so we can
```

```json
{
  "@id": "stream-asset",
  "@type": "dcat:Dataset",
  "odrl:hasPolicy": {
    "@id": "Y29udHJhY3QtZGVmaW5pdGlvbg==:c3RyZWFtLWFzc2V0:NDlhYTUzZWEtMDUzMS00ZDkyLTg4Y2YtMGRjMTc4MmQ1NjY4",
    "@type": "odrl:Set",
    "odrl:permission": [],
    "odrl:prohibition": [],
    "odrl:obligation": [],
    "odrl:target": "stream-asset"
  },
  "dcat:distribution": {
    "@type": "dcat:Distribution",
    "dct:format": {
      "@id": "HttpData"
    },
    "dcat:accessService": "b24dfdbc-d17f-4d6e-9b5c-8fa71dacecfc"
  },
  "edc:id": "stream-asset",
  "@context": {
    "dct": "https://purl.org/dc/terms/",
    "edc": "https://w3id.org/edc/v0.0.1/ns/",
    "dcat": "https://www.w3.org/ns/dcat/",
    "odrl": "http://www.w3.org/ns/odrl/2/",
    "dspace": "https://w3id.org/dspace/v0.8/"
  }
}
```

With the `odrl:hasPolicy/@id` we can now replace it in the [negotiate-contract.json](negotiate-contract.json) file
and request the contract negotiation:
```shell
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @transfer/streaming/streaming-01-http-to-http/negotiate-contract.json  -X POST "http://localhost:28181/management/v2/contractnegotiations" -s | jq
```

### Start the transfer

> First we need to set up the receiver server on the consumer side, that will receive a call for every message. For this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First we need to set up the receiver server on the consumer side that will receive a call for every message. For this
```

```

If the `edc:contractAgreementId` is valued, it can be used to start the transfer, replacing it in the [transfer.json](transfer.json)
file to `{{contract-agreement-id}}` and then calling the connector with this command:
```shell
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @transfer/streaming/streaming-01-http-to-http/transfer.json  -X POST "http://localhost:28181/management/v2/transferprocesses" -s | jq
```
> Note that the destination address is `localhost:4000`, this because is where our http server is listening.

Let's wait until the transfer state is `STARTED` state executing this call, replacing to `{{transfer-process-id}}` the id returned
by the start transfer call:
```shell
curl "http://localhost:28181/management/v2/transferprocesses/{{transfer-process-id}}" -s | jq
```

Here we can test the transfer creating a file into the `source` folder that we configured before, e.g. copying the `README.md`
into the `source` folder:
```shell
cp README.md /tmp/source
```

we should see the content logged into the received server:
```
Incoming request
Method: POST
Path: /
Body:
# EDC Samples
...
```
### Up to you: second connector

> A little challenge for you, try to start another consumer connector and try to negotiate the contract and start the transfer,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a challenge, try starting another consumer connector, negotiating a contract, and starting the transfer.
```

> every message pushed by the provider will be sent to all the consumers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every message pushed by the provider will be sent to all the consumers.
```

## Technical insight

> The code needed for this is all contained in the [`streaming-01-runtime` source folder](transfer/streaming/streaming-01-http-to-http/streaming-01-runtime/src/main/java/org/eclipse/edc/samples/transfer/streaming/http).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The required code is contained in the [`streaming-01-runtime` source folder](transfer/streaming/streaming-01-http-to-http/streaming-01-runtime/src/main/java/org/eclipse/edc/samples/transfer/streaming/http).
```
